While the center position has
16 spaces in which it can move,
most other positions have 12 or less.
As the game plays, we will have less and
less spaces our player can move.
>> That means we can make a better
estimate on how many nodes we have
right?
>> Yep, okay, we know we cannot
have more than 25 moves in a game.
That is the maximum depth
our tree is going to be.
And we already know how many moves
can be done in the beginning,
which leaves 23 moves left.
We know that each move after the first
two are generally going to have 12 or
fewer moves available.
We'll call this the branching factor.
In worse case,
we can expect 25 times 24 times 12 to
the 23rd n nodes in our game tree.
Shelly, how many is that?
>> More than 10 to the 27th power.
>> Ouch, okay that really didn't help.
Perhaps we can improve
our estimate more.
>> Well, we know at the end of the game
there have to be progressively fewer
moves available.
There are zero moves in the end,
one move before that,
a maximum of two before that,
three before that, and so on.
>> You're right.
So for the last few moves, assuming a
branching factor of 12 is way too much.
That would be around
10 to the 13th nodes.
But the maximum it could
be is 12 factorial,
or about 5 times 10 to the 8th.
I guess we could redo our estimate as
25 times 24 times 13 12s in a row,
times 5 times 10 to the 8th.
That's approximately equal
to 3 times 10 to the 23rd.
That is better than 10 to the 25th, or
the 10 to the 27th, but
still seems like a gross overestimate
as most branches will have much less
than the maximum branching factor.
>> Let's see if the students
have a better answer than we do.